Integrate MIAF and WFM identity profile SUPs (#194)
margo/specification: system-design/specification/identity/identity-security-considerations.md

# Identity Security Considerations

> MIAF assumes an adversarial network and the possibility of a compromised individual device or service. Its goals are to preserve identity integrity and minimize blast radius; protecting the private keys those identities rest on is assumed of the deployment rather than provided by the framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MIAF assumes an adversarial network and the possibility of a compromised individual device or service. Its goals are to preserve identity integrity and minimize blast radius; protecting the private keys those identities rest on is the responsibility of the deployment rather than provided by the framework.
```

> This section is scoped to identity. For each threat it states the mitigation MIAF relies on, with the concrete rules in the linked sections. Some mitigations are normative framework requirements; others are residual risks carried by the operator's deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section is scoped to identity. For each threat, it describes the mitigation that MIAF relies on, along with links to the specific rules. Some mitigations are normative framework requirements; others are residual risks carried by the operator's deployment.
```

## Framework Threats

| Threat | Description | Mitigation |
| :----- | :---------- | :---------- |

> | **Theft and misuse of a credential** | An attacker who obtains a principal's SVID together with its private key authenticates as that principal anywhere its SPIFFE ID is accepted; an X.509-SVID carries no audience restriction confining it to one relying party. | A principal MUST protect its private key (see the private-key-compromise row below); SVIDs SHOULD be short-lived per [SVID lifetime guidance](identity-lifecycle.md#svid-lifetime-guidance) to bound the exposure window; and each verifier MUST validate the SVID against the Trust Bundle and authorize the specific SPIFFE ID locally, so a stolen credential reaches only what that identity is granted (see [X.509-SVID validation](svids.md#x509-svid-validation)). |

Reviewer: Same links issue on this page

Author: See [here](https://github.com/margo/specification/pull/194#discussion_r3644293465).

| **Trust Bundle rollback** | A stale, cached, or replayed Bundle Map carrying an older `spiffe_sequence` is served to reverse a completed rotation, re-admitting a trust anchor that was removed to revoke a compromise. | A client SHOULD track the highest `spiffe_sequence` it has accepted for the local Trust Domain and reject a Bundle Map whose sequence has regressed, per [selecting and refreshing the bundle](trust-bundle-and-discovery.md#selecting-and-refreshing-the-bundle). |

> | **Certificate revocation lag** | A revocation event is not propagated promptly. | A deployment relies on the [operator revocation playbook](identity-lifecycle.md#operator-revocation-playbook) and short SVID lifetimes; a verifier SHOULD bound connection lifetime so that a long-lived mTLS session does not extend the lag indefinitely (see [session lifetime and re-validation](tls-requirements.md#session-lifetime-and-re-validation)). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Certificate revocation lag** | A revocation event is not propagated promptly. | A deployment relies on the [operator revocation playbook](identity-lifecycle.md#operator-revocation-playbook) and short SVID lifetimes; a verifier SHOULD limit connection lifetime so that a long-lived mTLS session does not extend the lag indefinitely (see [session lifetime and re-validation](tls-requirements.md#session-lifetime-and-re-validation)). |
```

| **Cross-domain trust confusion** | A component accepts identities from an unintended Trust Domain. | A verifier MUST determine the Trust Domain from the SPIFFE ID and MUST NOT trust an SVID whose Trust Domain is not the verifier's own. |
| **Inadvertent inspection-proxy MITM** | An operator-deployed traffic-inspecting proxy intercepts and re-signs Margo mTLS traffic, presenting a substitute certificate to either endpoint. | An operator MUST exempt Margo mTLS endpoints from inspection per [traffic-inspecting proxies](./tls-requirements.md#traffic-inspecting-proxies). Both endpoints MUST validate peer SVIDs against the Trust Bundle and reject a substituted certificate. |
| **Forwarded-identity header injection** | In a TLS-offload topology, an attacker injects a forged `Client-Cert` header to impersonate an authenticated caller at the backend. | The proxy MUST remove or overwrite any `Client-Cert` or `Client-Cert-Chain` header on incoming requests, and the backend MUST accept a forwarded identity only over the trusted proxy boundary, per [traffic-inspecting proxies](./tls-requirements.md#traffic-inspecting-proxies). |

> | **Unreliable or manipulated verifier clock** | A principal mis-evaluates certificate validity periods because its clock is skewed or unset (a dead RTC battery, no time source at first boot) or because an attacker rewinds it, for example by spoofing an unauthenticated time source on the adversarial network. Rewinding the clock extends the validity window of an expired SVID, defeating the use of expiry as revocation. | SVID validation depends on a trustworthy local time source. A principal SHOULD synchronize time from a trustworthy source before validating certificates, and operators SHOULD account for devices with weak clocks when choosing SVID lifetimes (see [SVID lifetime guidance](./identity-lifecycle.md#svid-lifetime-guidance)). A deployment that cannot assure clock integrity SHOULD NOT rely on expiry alone for revocation. |

Author: Yes, accurate clocks matter beyond identity :) Having a device-level requirements for clock synchronization would probably be useful. But I'm not sure if this exceeds the scope of this PR. Within MIAF, clock-related threads are already mitigated in depth.
